2011, Richard Freeman (A Harvard economics professor) was working on a project - how groups of people work together, 
specifically how scientists work together.
Findings:
 - Scientists in the US seem to stick to their own kind.
 - Chinese, Indians, Europeans.

 This kind of clustering is found in other workplaces as well, but according to the professor, 
 science should be different as, in general, people who are alike are likely to think more alike, 
 but one of the things that gives a kick to science and scientific productivity is that you get people 
 with different views together.

 (This has long been debated.) Some say teams with lots of different perspectives come up with better ideas. 
 Others say when a group has lots of different views, conflict, and gridlock may arise between people.

 Do scientists who collaborate with others from the same group produce better Science? 
 Or worse science than scientists who have a network of collaborators.

To answer this, the professor took the following approach:

Looked at Signals of Scientific Success: Research Papers.
He found that most of the papers were written by a team who had people of similar ethnicity. 
(Do these papers appear in other journals? Ans - No)
 
The more groundbreaking a paper is, the more likely it is to be cited by others. Citation is a marker of importance.

A paper that is written with a broader group of people is likely to get more citations than a paper that was written by people of the same ethnic group.
Most prestigious papers are often written by a mix of people with different backgrounds.

Findings held true no matter what group you looked at.

More ideas link together to spawn better ideas.


Galicia - Spain (Bagpipes)

Jimmy Hendrix of the Bagpipes: Christina - She experimented with the way she played bagpipes by fusing it with rock music.

She stumbled into a room filled with master musicians from around the world. They were part of a group created by Yo Yo Ma
known as the Silk Road ensemble. It brings together musicians from different cultures and traditions.

It was a turning point in her life: she embraced a vision: What could happen when strangers meet? When musicians from all over the world meet?

Yo Yo Ma describes the work of the collective as something known as THE EDGE EFFECT.

THE EDGE effect is the pointing where two ecosystems meet- like the forest and the savannah. Most new life forms are created along this edge.
The Silk Road was Yo Yo Ma's creation of the edge effect.

Putting together instruments that you would think would never work.

The Silk Road musicians discovered something in music that the professor discovered in science. (The interesting stuff happens when different people come together and live together.)


(End of 16 mins.)


House shoes were kept on a bench. (Different shoes, different clothes for outside and inside)
Jen has strong ideas about keeping the inside of a home separate from the outside world.
Over time, Adam has made these ideas his own.

Adam -> Jewish
Jen -> Filipino -> part of culture respect of home.
This culture she passed on to Adam.
Jen has adopted Adam's Jewish values.

When people from different countries or cultures come together, it affects their creativity.
The link between -> Diversity and Creativity.
In China, it is considered good to leave food on the plate (which means that you have enough to eat); in Indonesia, it's the opposite
(This means that the food was not good). How a simple object (food) could have different meanings and implications depending on the culture.

How different cultures can help us see the world differently and spark creativity and innovation.

Students who showed the most creativity were also those who interacted with people from different countries.

People who had dated someone from another culture became more creative in their career than people who only had friends from another culture.
Something unique about inter-cultural relationships.

When you introduce racial Diversity into a group, all the people in the group begin to broaden their thinking and explore more options.

Creativity can be analyzed by analyzing Diversion thinking: Don't ask for a single right answer. (A generating a lot of scenarios or ideas, for instance) and 
Conversion thinking: Tasks that have a single right answer.

Round, Manner, Tennis: Table.

There was a correlation between the people who were still in contact with their American friends when they went back and started a new company
entrepreneurship or changing practices in the company in which they work.

Frequency is also important in Intercultural relationships.

Limitations:

People might be risk takers: Not creativity, just having an open outlook in life.
It's not the musical collaborations that make you more creative, it's just having an open outlook.
(Difficult to explore questions like this scientifically.)

The connection between creativity and the time that fashion creators had spent immersed in a different culture.
The amount of time a creative director had worked abroad predicted their entire fashion line's creativity but not the number of countries they worked abroad.

Business students who dated someone from another country -> Fashion designers
The students look a lot like the scientists who spend time collaborating with partners from different ethnicities.
The musicians who work with someone from a different tradition have something in common with the entrepreneurs who make 
broad connections and spend time maintaining them.

What all these relationships have is Depth:

Conclusion: It's about truly understanding another culture, which is the key to enhancing creativity.

Broad collaborations are within easy reach, especially in the USA, by embracing people from other cultures. But it can't be superficial, you have to deeply connect with the people to have a transformational effect in that experience.


The USA -> 5% of the world population -> has won about 60% of all the Nobel prizes ever awarded.
This has to do with the extraordinary diversity of America and the waves of immigrants who arrived over centuries.
